Texture fetching (#3552)
ROCm-Developer-Tools/HIP: docs/understand/texture_fetching.rst

.. meta::
  :description: This chapter describes the texture fetching modes of the HIP ecosystem
  ROCm software.
  :keywords: AMD, ROCm, HIP, Texture, Texture Fetching

*******************************************************************************
Texture Fetching
*******************************************************************************

> `Textures <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/HIP/en/latest/doxygen/html/group___texture.html>`_ are more than just a buffer, that is interpreted as 1D, 2D or 3D array. Because of its legacy as a graphics functionality, textures are indexed with floats. This can happen two different ways, either the index will be in the range of [0..size-1] or in [0..1]. The difference is mathematically just a division, so for the explanations on this page, we'll use the [0..size-1] indices.

Reviewer: Use either "floating-point values/numbers" or `float` as code. Also applies to the rest of the document

```suggestion
`Textures <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/HIP/en/latest/doxygen/html/group___texture.html>`_ are more than just a buffer, that is interpreted as 1D, 2D or 3D array. Because of their legacy as a graphics functionality, textures are indexed with floating-point values. This can happen two different ways, either the index will be in the range of [0..size-1] or in [0..1]. The difference is mathematically just a division, so for the explanations on this page, we'll use the [0..size-1] indices.
```

> `Textures <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/HIP/en/latest/doxygen/html/group___texture.html>`_ are more than just a buffer, that is interpreted as 1D, 2D or 3D array. Because of its legacy as a graphics functionality, textures are indexed with floats. This can happen two different ways, either the index will be in the range of [0..size-1] or in [0..1]. The difference is mathematically just a division, so for the explanations on this page, we'll use the [0..size-1] indices.

Reviewer: Almost overlooked it: this hyperlink currently always redirects to "latest", even if the user is looking at an older version of the documentation. This should hopefully do the trick
```suggestion
[Textures](../doxygen/html/group___texture) are more than just a buffer, that is interpreted as 1D, 2D or 3D array. Because of its legacy as a graphics functionality, textures are indexed with floats. This can happen two different ways, either the index will be in the range of [0..size-1] or in [0..1]. The difference is mathematically just a division, so for the explanations on this page, we'll use the [0..size-1] indices.
```

Reviewer: Whoops, seems like I messed up. `../../doxygen/html/group___texture.html` as a link should fix it :)

Author: checked it. `../doxygen/html/group___texture.html` seems to be the one working

Reviewer: Nope, it still needs the additional `../`, otherwise it just reaches the `understand` directory

Author: well, it works now. and it doesn't work with the second `../` so i guess i'll leave it like this

Reviewer: Weird, yesterday the link still rendered wrongly. Works for me now too.

Using float indices isn't trivial. The two issues that come up are sampling and addressing.

When a texture is indexed with a fraction, the queried value is often between two or more texels (texture elements). The sampling method defines what value to return in these cases.

> Sometimes the index is outside the bounds of the texture. This might seem unintuitive, but is useful in computer graphics for putting a texture on a surface multiple times, or just creating a visible sign of out of bounds indexing. Addressing mode defines what value to return when indexing a texture out of bounds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes the index is outside the bounds of the texture. This might seem unintuitive, but is useful in computer graphics for putting a texture on a surface multiple times, or just creating a visible sign of out of bounds indexing. The addressing mode defines what value to return when indexing a texture out of bounds.
```

> There are several different sampling and addressing modes, and no rule for how to choose between them, as it is dependent on the application. This means that it has to be decided during development which sampling and addressing method to use.

Reviewer: The second part seems somewhat obvious - every function that is used has to be decided during development.
Maybe something more like:
```suggestion
There are several different sampling and addressing modes, the differences between which are described in the following.
```
This would also give the opportunity to introduce sections, s.t. the sampling methods are all grouped under one point in the sidebar

This image is the texture, that will be used as for the examples below. It is 2x2 texels and is indexed in the [0..1] range.

.. image:: ../data/understand/textures/original.png
  :width: 150

>   :alt: Texture used as example

Reviewer: An additional caption for these pictures would be nice. Basically the same as the alt-text already states

.. _texture_fetching_nearest:
Nearest point sampling
===============================================================================

> In this mode the ``tex(x) = T[floor(x)]`` and similarly for 2D and 3D variants. In practice this will not interpolate between neighboring values, which results in a pixelated look.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this mode the ``tex(x) = T[floor(x)]`` and similarly for 2D and 3D variants. This does not interpolate between neighboring values, which results in a pixelated look.
```

> This image is the example texture stretched out to a 4x4 pixel quad, but still indexed in the [0..1] range. The in between values are the same as the values of the nearest texel.

Reviewer: This is why I would want some kind of coordinate-grid on top of this: how is this "nearest point" sampling, when it just rounds the coordinate down? I know, the name is probably just convention by now.

But if you index this in the [0...1] range despite stretching it out to a 4x4 pixel, how does this create this picture? Assuming that the upper left is (0,0), and every pixel adds 0.25 to the indexing, then the third pixel to the right in the first row would have the index (0, 0.75), which by the formula for this sampling would index the original texture at (0,0), thereby being red. Wouldn't 3/4th of this sampling method have to be red?

Author: the sample points should be 0, 0.33, 0.66 and 1, on both axis

.. image:: ../data/understand/textures/nearest.png
  :width: 300
  :alt: Texture upscaled with nearest point sampling

.. _texture_fetching_linear:
Linear filtering
===============================================================================

> Linear filtering method simply does a linear interpolation between values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The linear filtering method simply does a linear interpolation between values.
```

* For one dimensional textures it is ``tex(x) = (1-α)T[i] + αT[i+1]``
* For two dimensional textures it is ``tex(x,y) = (1-α)(1-β)T[i,j] + α(1-β)T[i+1,j] + (1-α)βT[i,j+1] + αβT[i+1,j+1]``
* For three dimensional textures it is ``tex(x,y,z) = (1-α)(1-β)(1-γ)T[i,j,k] + α(1-β)(1-γ)T[i+1,j,k] + (1-α)β(1-γ)T[i,j+1,k] + αβ(1-γ)T[i+1,j+1,k] + (1-α)(1-β)γT[i,j,k+1] + α(1-β)γT[i+1,j,k+1] + (1-α)βγT[i,j+1,k+1] + αβγT[i+1,j+1,k+1]``

> Where ``i = round(x')``, ``α = frac(x')``, ``x' = x - 0.5``, ``j = round(y')``, ``β = frac(y')``, ``y' = y - 0.5``, ``k = round(z')``, ``γ = frac(z')`` and ``z' = z - 0.5``

Reviewer: This could need a better explanation, that does more than just listing the equations. Or at least explain the variables for the one dimensional case, so that the others are easier to follow

Using floating-point indices isn't trivial. The two issues that come up are sampling and addressing.

When a texture is indexed with a fraction, the queried value is often between two or more texels (texture elements). The sampling method defines what value to return in these cases.

Sometimes the index is outside the bounds of the texture. This might seem unintuitive, but is useful in computer graphics for putting a texture on a surface multiple times, or just creating a visible sign of out of bounds indexing. The addressing mode defines what value to return when indexing a texture out of bounds.

There are several different sampling and addressing modes, the differences between which are described in the following.

This image is the texture, that will be used as for the examples below. It is 2x2 texels and is indexed in the [0..1] range.

.. image:: ../data/understand/textures/original.png

>   :width: 150

Reviewer 2: Please add:

``:align: center``

Reviewer 2: I checked the image, and it does not help me understand the sampling mode.

  :alt: Texture used as example

Texture used as example

.. _texture_fetching_nearest:
Nearest point sampling
===============================================================================

In this mode the ``tex(x) = T[floor(x)]`` and similarly for 2D and 3D variants. This doesn't interpolate between neighboring values, which results in a pixelated look.

This image is the example texture stretched out to a 4x4 pixel quad, but still indexed in the [0..1] range. The in between values are the same as the values of the nearest texel.

.. image:: ../data/understand/textures/nearest.png

>   :width: 300

Reviewer 2: Please add:

``:align: center``

.. meta::
  :description: This chapter describes the texture fetching modes of the HIP ecosystem
  ROCm software.
  :keywords: AMD, ROCm, HIP, Texture, Texture Fetching

*******************************************************************************

> Texture Fetching

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Texture fetching
```

*******************************************************************************

> `Textures <../doxygen/html/group___texture.html>`_ are more than just a buffer, that is interpreted as 1D, 2D or 3D array. Because of their legacy as a graphics functionality, textures are indexed with floating-point values. This can happen two different ways, either the index will be in the range of [0..size-1] or in [0..1]. The difference is mathematically just a division, so for the explanations on this page, we'll use the [0..size-1] indices.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`Textures <../doxygen/html/group___texture.html>`_ are more than just a buffer interpreted as a 1D, 2D, or 3D array. 
As textures are associated with graphics, they are indexed using floating-point values. The index can be in the range of [0 to size-1] or in [0 to1].
```

> Using floating-point indices isn't trivial. The two issues that come up are sampling and addressing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Depending on the index, texture sampling or texture addressing is performed, which decides the return value.
```

> When a texture is indexed with a fraction, the queried value is often between two or more texels (texture elements). The sampling method defines what value to return in these cases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Texture sampling**: When a texture is indexed with a fraction, the queried value is often between two or more texels (texture elements). The sampling method defines what value to return in such cases.
```

> Sometimes the index is outside the bounds of the texture. This might seem unintuitive, but is useful in computer graphics for putting a texture on a surface multiple times, or just creating a visible sign of out of bounds indexing. The addressing mode defines what value to return when indexing a texture out of bounds.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Texture addressing**: Sometimes, the index is outside the bounds of the texture. This condition might look like a problem but helps to put a texture on a surface multiple times or to create a visible sign of out-of-bounds indexing, in computer graphics. The addressing mode defines what value to return when indexing a texture out of bounds.
```

> There are several different sampling and addressing modes, the differences between which are described in the following.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The different sampling and addressing modes are described in the following sections.
```

This image is the texture, that will be used as for the examples below. It is 2x2 texels and is indexed in the [0..1] range.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here is the sample texture used in this document for demonstration purposes. It is 2x2 texels and indexed in the [0 to 1] range.
```

.. figure:: ../data/understand/textures/original.png
  :width: 150
  :alt: Texture used as example
  :align: center

  Texture used as example

Texture sampling
===============================================================================

> Texture sampling handles the usage of fractional indices. It is the method that describes, which near by values will be used, and how they are combined into the resulting value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Texture sampling handles the usage of fractional indices. It is the method that describes, which nearby values will be used, and how they are combined into the resulting value.

The various texture sampling methods are discussed in the following sections.
```

.. _texture_fetching_nearest:
Nearest point sampling
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> In this mode the ``tex(x) = T[floor(x+0.5)]`` and similarly for 2D and 3D variants. This doesn't interpolate between neighboring values, which results in a pixelated look.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this method:
``tex(x) = T[floor(x+0.5)]`` 
This is also applicable for 2D and 3D variants.

This doesn't interpolate between neighboring values, which results in a pixelated look.
```

> This image is the example texture stretched out to a 4x4 pixel quad, but still indexed in the [0..1] range. The in between values are the same as the values of the nearest texel.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following image shows a texture stretched to a 4x4 pixel quad but still indexed in the [0 to 1] range. The in-between values are the same as the values of the nearest texel.
```

.. figure:: ../data/understand/textures/nearest.png
  :width: 300
  :alt: Texture upscaled with nearest point sampling
  :align: center

  Texture upscaled with nearest point sampling

.. _texture_fetching_linear:
Linear filtering
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> The linear filtering method simply does a linear interpolation between values. Linear interpolation is used to create a linear transition between two values. The formula used is ``(1-t)P1 + tP2`` where ``P1`` and ``P2`` are the values and ``t`` is within the [0..1] range.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The linear filtering method does a linear interpolation between values. Linear interpolation is used to create a linear transition between two values. The formula used is ``(1-t)P1 + tP2`` where ``P1`` and ``P2`` are the values and ``t`` is within the [0 to 1] range.
```

In the case of texture sampling the following formulas are used:

* For one dimensional textures it is ``tex(x) = (1-α)T[i] + αT[i+1]``
* For two dimensional textures it is ``tex(x,y) = (1-α)(1-β)T[i,j] + α(1-β)T[i+1,j] + (1-α)βT[i,j+1] + αβT[i+1,j+1]``

> * For three dimensional textures it is ``tex(x,y,z) = (1-α)(1-β)(1-γ)T[i,j,k] + α(1-β)(1-γ)T[i+1,j,k] + (1-α)β(1-γ)T[i,j+1,k] + αβ(1-γ)T[i+1,j+1,k] + (1-α)(1-β)γT[i,j,k+1] + α(1-β)γT[i+1,j,k+1] + (1-α)βγT[i,j+1,k+1] + αβγT[i+1,j+1,k+1]``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* For one dimensional textures: ``tex(x) = (1-α)T[i] + αT[i+1]``
* For two dimensional textures: ``tex(x,y) = (1-α)(1-β)T[i,j] + α(1-β)T[i+1,j] + (1-α)βT[i,j+1] + αβT[i+1,j+1]``
* For three dimensional textures: ``tex(x,y,z) = (1-α)(1-β)(1-γ)T[i,j,k] + α(1-β)(1-γ)T[i+1,j,k] + (1-α)β(1-γ)T[i,j+1,k] + αβ(1-γ)T[i+1,j+1,k] + (1-α)(1-β)γT[i,j,k+1] + α(1-β)γT[i+1,j,k+1] + (1-α)βγT[i,j+1,k+1] + αβγT[i+1,j+1,k+1]``
```

> Where ``x, y, z`` are the floating-point indices, ``i, j, k`` are the integer indices and ``α, β, γ`` values represent how far along the sampled point is on the three axes. These values are calculated by these formulas: ``i = floor(x')``, ``α = frac(x')``, ``x' = x - 0.5``, ``j = floor(y')``, ``β = frac(y')``, ``y' = y - 0.5``, ``k = floor(z')``, ``γ = frac(z')`` and ``z' = z - 0.5``

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Where x, y, and, z are the floating-point indices. i, j, and, k are the integer indices and, α, β, and, γ values represent how far along the sampled point is on the three axes. These values are calculated by these formulas: ``i = floor(x')``, ``α = frac(x')``, ``x' = x - 0.5``, ``j = floor(y')``, ``β = frac(y')``, ``y' = y - 0.5``, ``k = floor(z')``, ``γ = frac(z')`` and ``z' = z - 0.5``
```

> This image is the example texture stretched out to a 4x4 pixel quad, but still indexed in the [0..1] range. The in between values are interpolated between the neighboring texels.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This following image shows a texture stretched out to a 4x4 pixel quad, but still indexed in the [0 to 1] range. The in-between values are interpolated between the neighboring texels.
```

.. figure:: ../data/understand/textures/linear.png
  :width: 300
  :alt: Texture upscaled with linear filtering
  :align: center

  Texture upscaled with linear filtering

Texture addressing
===============================================================================

> Texture addressing mode handles, when the index is out of bounds of the texture. It describes which values of the texture (or a preset value) to use, when the index is out of bounds.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Texture addressing mode handles the index that is out of bounds of the texture. This mode describes which values of the texture or a preset value to use when the index is out of bounds.

The following sections describe the various texture addressing methods.
```

.. _texture_fetching_border:
Address mode border
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is probably the simplest address mode. When indexing out of bounds, the texture fetching returns a border value. This has to be set before texture fetching.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this method, the texture fetching returns a border value when indexing out of bounds. This must be set before texture fetching.

```

> This image is the example texture on a 4x4 pixel quad indexed in the [0..3] range. The out of bounds values are the border color, which is yellow.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following image shows the texture on a 4x4 pixel quad, indexed in the [0 to 3] range. The out-of-bounds values are the border color, which is yellow.
```

.. figure:: ../data/understand/textures/border.png
  :width: 300
  :alt: Texture with yellow border color
  :align: center

>   Texture with yellow border color. The purple lines are not part of the texture, only denote the edge, where the addressing begins. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The purple lines are not part of the texture, only denote the edge, where the addressing begins.
```

.. _texture_fetching_wrap:
Address mode wrap
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> This addressing mode is very simple. Mathematically it uses modulo of the index.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this addressing mode, the modulo of the index is calculated:
```

``tex(x) = T[x mod (size-1)]``

This creates a repeating image effect.

> This image is the example texture on a 4x4 pixel quad indexed in the [0..3] range. The out of bounds values are repeating the original texture.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following image shows the texture on a 4x4 pixel quad, indexed in the [0 to 3] range. The out-of-bounds values are repeating the original texture.
```

.. figure:: ../data/understand/textures/wrap.png
  :width: 300
  :alt: Texture with wrap addressing
  :align: center

>   Texture with wrap addressing. The purple lines are not part of the texture, only denote the edge, where the addressing begins. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The purple lines are not part of the texture, only denote the edge, where the addressing begins. 
```

.. _texture_fetching_mirror:
Address mode mirror
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Similar to wrapping mirror mode also creates a repeating image, but this time neighboring instances are mirrored.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Similar to the wrap mode, this mode also creates a repeating image, but by mirroring the neighboring instances.
```

> This image is the example texture on a 4x4 pixel quad indexed in the [0..3] range. The out of bounds values are repeating the original texture, but mirrored.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following image shows the texture on a 4x4 pixel quad, indexed in the [0 to 3] range. The out-of-bounds values are repeating the original texture, but mirrored.
```

.. figure:: ../data/understand/textures/mirror.png
  :width: 300
  :alt: Texture with mirror addressing
  :align: center

>   Texture with mirror addressing. The purple lines are not part of the texture, only denote the edge, where the addressing begins. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The purple lines are not part of the texture, only denote the edge, where the addressing begins. 
```

.. _texture_fetching_clamp:
Address mode clamp
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> This mode simply clamps the index to be between [0..size-1]. This means that when indexing out of bounds, the values on the edge of the texture will repeat.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This mode clamps the index between [0 to size-1]. Due to this, when indexing out-of-bounds, the values on the edge of the texture repeat.
```

> This image is the example texture on a 4x4 pixel quad indexed in the [0..3] range. The out of bounds values are repeating the values at the edge of the texture.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following image shows the texture on a 4x4 pixel quad, indexed in the [0 to 3] range. The out-of-bounds values are repeating the values at the edge of the texture.
```

.. figure:: ../data/understand/textures/clamp.png
  :width: 300
  :alt: Texture with clamp addressing
  :align: center

>   Texture with clamp addressing. The purple lines are not part of the texture, only denote the edge, where the addressing begins. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The purple lines are not part of the texture, only denote the edge, where the addressing begins. 
```

As textures are associated with graphics, they are indexed using floating-point values. The index can be in the range of [0 to size-1] or in [0 to 1].

Depending on the index, texture sampling or texture addressing is performed, which decides the return value.

**Texture sampling**: When a texture is indexed with a fraction, the queried value is often between two or more texels (texture elements). The sampling method defines what value to return in such cases.

**Texture addressing**: Sometimes, the index is outside the bounds of the texture. This condition might look like a problem but helps to put a texture on a surface multiple times or to create a visible sign of out-of-bounds indexing, in computer graphics. The addressing mode defines what value to return when indexing a texture out of bounds.

The different sampling and addressing modes are described in the following sections.

Here is the sample texture used in this document for demonstration purposes. It is 2x2 texels and indexed in the [0 to 1] range.

.. figure:: ../data/understand/textures/original.png
  :width: 150

>   :alt: Texture used as example

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  :alt: Sample texture
```

  :align: center

>   Texture used as example

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Texture sampling
===============================================================================

Texture sampling handles the usage of fractional indices. It is the method that describes, which nearby values will be used, and how they are combined into the resulting value.

The various texture sampling methods are discussed in the following sections.

.. _texture_fetching_nearest:
Nearest point sampling
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> In this method:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this method, the modulo of index is calculated as:
```

Reviewer 4: Updated

.. figure:: ../data/understand/textures/linear.png
  :width: 300
  :alt: Texture upscaled with linear filtering
  :align: center

  Texture upscaled with linear filtering

Texture addressing
===============================================================================

Texture addressing mode handles the index that is out of bounds of the texture. This mode describes which values of the texture or a preset value to use when the index is out of bounds.

The following sections describe the various texture addressing methods.

.. _texture_fetching_border:
Address mode border
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In this method, the texture fetching returns a border value when indexing out of bounds. This must be set before texture fetching.

The following image shows the texture on a 4x4 pixel quad, indexed in the [0 to 3] range. The out-of-bounds values are the border color, which is yellow.

.. figure:: ../data/understand/textures/border.png
  :width: 300
  :alt: Texture with yellow border color
  :align: center

>   The purple lines are not part of the texture, only denote the edge, where the addressing begins.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Texture with yellow border color. 
```

Reviewer 4: Updated

> 

Reviewer 3: The purple lines are not part of the texture. They only denote the edge, where the addressing begins.

Reviewer 4: Updated

.. _texture_fetching_wrap:
Address mode wrap
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> In this addressing mode, the modulo of the index is calculated:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this addressing mode, the modulo of the index is calculated as:
```

``tex(x) = T[x mod (size-1)]``

This creates a repeating image effect.

The following image shows the texture on a 4x4 pixel quad, indexed in the [0 to 3] range. The out-of-bounds values are repeating the original texture.

.. figure:: ../data/understand/textures/wrap.png
  :width: 300
  :alt: Texture with wrap addressing
  :align: center

>   The purple lines are not part of the texture, only denote the edge, where the addressing begins.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Texture with wrap addressing.
```

Reviewer 4: Updated

> 

Reviewer 3: The purple lines are not part of the texture. They only denote the edge, where the addressing begins.

Reviewer 4: Updated

.. _texture_fetching_mirror:
Address mode mirror
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Similar to the wrap mode, this mode also creates a repeating image, but by mirroring the neighboring instances.

The following image shows the texture on a 4x4 pixel quad, indexed in the [0 to 3] range. The out-of-bounds values are repeating the original texture, but mirrored.

.. figure:: ../data/understand/textures/mirror.png
  :width: 300
  :alt: Texture with mirror addressing
  :align: center

>   The purple lines are not part of the texture, only denote the edge, where the addressing begins.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Texture with mirror addressing
```

Reviewer 4: Updated

> 

Reviewer 3: The purple lines are not part of the texture. They only denote the edge, where the addressing begins.

.. _texture_fetching_clamp:
Address mode clamp
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This mode clamps the index between [0 to size-1]. Due to this, when indexing out-of-bounds, the values on the edge of the texture repeat.

The following image shows the texture on a 4x4 pixel quad, indexed in the [0 to 3] range. The out-of-bounds values are repeating the values at the edge of the texture.

.. figure:: ../data/understand/textures/clamp.png
  :width: 300
  :alt: Texture with clamp addressing
  :align: center

>   The purple lines are not part of the texture, only denote the edge, where the addressing begins.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Texture with clamp addressing
  
The purple lines are not part of the texture. They only denote the edge, where the addressing begins.
```

.. meta::
  :description: This chapter describes the texture fetching modes of the HIP ecosystem
  ROCm software.
  :keywords: AMD, ROCm, HIP, Texture, Texture Fetching

*******************************************************************************
Texture fetching
*******************************************************************************

`Textures <../doxygen/html/group___texture.html>`_ are more than just a buffer interpreted as a 1D, 2D, or 3D array.

> As textures are associated with graphics, they are indexed using floating-point values. The index can be in the range of [0 to size-1] or in [0 to 1].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As textures are associated with graphics, they are indexed using floating-point values. The index can be in the range of [0 to size-1] or [0 to 1].
```
